and these poles just crossed this
morning more Americans disapprove of
president Trump's handling of the
coronavirus response according to a new
NPR Marist Poll just released this
morning 55 percent of Americans say they
disapprove of the president's response
to the corona virus pandemic that's up
six points since last month 44 percent
to prove over 6 and 10 believe their
state's governor is handling the crisis
better than president Trump Americans
also shared their thoughts about which
2020 contender could handle the virus
and the economy better 55 percent say
they would prefer for Joe Biden to be
handling the corona virus pandemic 40
percent would rather have Trump managing
the crisis by the way this in the middle
of the greatest crisis since World War
two Joe Biden preferred by 15 percent of
course the reason why in part we're
going to keep going through this poll
but when Joe Biden in late January is
warning the pandemic is going to get
worse and Donald Trump still in March is
just saying it's gonna magically go away
that gives you some insight as to why
Americans know Joe Biden saw this coming
all along and warned people
in January about what was going to
happen so here opinions fall along
partisan lines but it does include 55%
of independents who say they would
prefer that Biden be handling the crisis
and 51% of Americans want Joe Biden
handling the economy 44% say they'd
rather it be Trump Willie
wealth and Willie that's pretty simple
pretty remarkable number two if you look
at Joe Biden on the economy more
Americans prefer Joe Biden handling the
economy Donald Trump's calling card
but he's always bragged about saying
this is the difference between him and
and other Republicans or him and
Democrats he knows how to do things well
no actually Americans have seen his
failures in developing a strong testing
regimen has kept this country closed
longer and if you look at his own
doctors if you look at his own scientist
if you listen to what nurses what
medical providers say they all say and
CEOs are saying it - we can't reopen our
economy until we strengthen our testing
everybody's saying it I mean see from
CEOs to nurses and and so I think that's
partly what you're saying and those poll
numbers that show Americans prefer Joe
Biden to Donald Trump when it comes to
handling the economy yeah and through
all the chaos as you know President
Trump has basically staked his
presidency on a strong economy it's
where he always goes when he's in
trouble look at the unemployment numbers
look at the stock market as those have
collapsed over the last couple of months
he no longer can hang his hat on that
and you're seeing some of that in those
numbers in terms of opening up the
economy that same NPR poll mica was
talking about asked whether it's a good
or a bad idea to resume certain normal
activities without further testing
ninety-one percent of Americans say it
is a bad idea to allow people to attend
sporting events 85 percent agree schools
should remain closed 80 percent thing
where I think restaurants should not
allow customers to dine in and
sixty-five percent say it's a bad idea
to allow people to return to work
without testing mica 85 percent think
it's a bad idea to reopen schools what
was Donald Trump doing yesterday pushing
to reopen schools there's such a mixed
messaging caddy k in the in the UK it's
very clear and it's interesting that you
know they're there Prime Minister has
been through this and perhaps sort of
found the truth of it it's not a virus
that you can play around with yeah Boris
Johnson went from being a kind of
skeptic to some extent about this in
early March when he was still bragging
about the fact that he was going to
shake people's hands right we played
that clip on the program before and then
ending up a month later in ICU and now
begging the British population to stick
with this because he can see the perils
of opening up too soon I mean it's
interesting there's at NPR and the Pew
poll even if you ask Americans who have
lost
jobs did they want to open up the
economy precipitously they still say no
by a margin of four to one they realize
the costs of this and actually there's a
really good there's a lot that America
can learn because we're a little bit
behind the curve from other countries
Germany opened up a week ago last Monday
in the space of nine days of having
loosened some restrictions allowing a
few more businesses to open allowing
some kids to go to school there
infection rate from the virus has
already spiked up again that's just in
the space of eight days and I think
that's a really solid free lesson for
people about you can start the process
of opening up yep and everybody wants to
we're all going crazy people need to get
back to work but there is this risk that
that reinfection rate will go up again
and then you end up with more hotspots
and I think what governors are really
trying to do around the country is get
their infection rate so low that we're
almost back at the kind of status quo
ante before this all started so that
then they can test and find out where
the hotspots are and see what's
happening but we should be looking to
other countries that are opening up now
to see what experience they have you
know John Heilemann you look at those
numbers from the from this poll the NPR
poll match is a Pew poll matches other
polls that have been out that show an
overwhelming majority of Americans think
that their governors are doing the right
thing or their governors are being
responsible I'd love to put that poll
back up it shows eighty-five percent of
Americans think it's a bad idea and mark
me is one of those Americans even though
I'm saying reopen the parks let people
walk on beaches reopen public spaces let
people socially distant safely let's
start figuring out a way to move towards
reopening the economy but reopening
schools eighty-five percent of Americans
think this is a bad idea and yet you
have Donald Trump going out
suggesting that schools reopened this
year and you have the Attorney General
in the United States of America at the
same time Donald Trump puts out
guidelines that he's now he's already
forgotten the guidelines that he put out
and so these cancer
not conservatives they're idiots these
trumpets who think that they're finding
a way forward politically by attacking
stayed home orders they're the 10%
they're the 15% they're in the minority
if they think this is how they're going
to build the future of the Republican
Party after Trump loses this fall they
are badly mistaken and they can look at
any polls including Fox News polls right
I mean look at I mean there are two
things to say job in those numbers just
to stay focused on them for a second
right look at the approval ratings of
the governors in the states that have
been hardest hit by this virus who have
had the most aggressive stay at home
orders look at the approval ratings for
a Governor Cuomo for Gretchen Whitmer
for gavin newsom for jay Inslee and and
others or I take the top ten states and
it take Florida and Ohio as well and
Ohio and might and might like too wide
so so take the top the state the top ten
states combination of hardest hit by the
virus with tough stay at home orders all
of those governors are north of 60
percent approval rate
many of them are or north of 70% okay so
they all have 20 points on where Donald
Trump currently stands in terms of just
the basic thing up approve disapprove
right so that's point number one and
then your point about the polls about
the schools right
overwhelmingly if you ask parents what
I'd be long before this this pandemic
and you said to a parent do you agree
yes or no what the thing with it with
the statement that a school is a petri
dish VIPRE virus in general
schools are petri dishes kids are
constantly giving each other I mean it's
just the story of every fall and winter
in America is kids playing with each
other it's not on their nose you know
doing the stuff kids do they only need
to they're sick they all come home with
illnesses they all give their parents
and their siblings that's like the most
normal thing in an American family every
American family understands that the
school is a petri dish and so of course
when you now have things living in the
petri dish that can kill you of course
parents are going to be like
I'm really not enjoying homeschooling my
kids it's really difficult for me
we all have cabin fever yes all of those
things are true but did you I want to
send my child into a petri dish where
one of the bugs that lives there could
kill my kid or kill me of course you're
gonna see numbers North 80% that people
are going to be most skeptical of this
of all the things in the economy I think
you will see in during poll numbers that
will have parents most wary about
opening up the schools and so when
Donald Trump says something like you
said yesterday you just you gotta stop
and think for a second you know when
polls are you looking at buddy or yeah
are you talk anybody in your and your
political team read a poll I don't want
you to govern my poll but right now some
of these polls are screaming messages
that the president if he's just
concerned with his own political future
would do well to heed because the
American public is speaking pretty loud
and clear on some of these pretty basic
issues it's common common sense I mean
people want to be safe and they follow
the logic here thanks for checking out
MSNBC on YouTube and make sure you
subscribe to stay up-to-date on the
day's biggest stories and you can click
on any of the videos around us to watch
more 4 Morning Joe and MSNBC thanks so
much for watching